The whole rest of the night was more heavy. Shock.
And some reclaiming, too. Reclaiming of space and
body. And, like, stamping and stomping out that
anger. Brushing it off and, like, being defiant,
and being like, “This is what it means to be in
this space. This is what it means to be part of
a legacy of marginalization and criminalization.”
And also counting our blessings that the space
even happened and that people... That it wasn’t worse.
That being said, the energy of the invasion was
felt for years. People came to me and needed to
talk about that for years. I think people had
more trouble transitioning into the space without
reassurance or without a plan of protection in
case they came again. If you were in the space,
and you were dealing with police or imprisonment,
aggression, abuse, safety, stalking, ridicule,
ridicule, ridicule was often something that people
needed to figure out how to counter.
“He saw me inthis position.”
“He laughed at me.”
“I never couldwear that again."
“I went home and broke somethingthat
I just can't... I can never repair.”
My work, I felt, was to try to bring it
around to being present,
to the fact that this Palace could continue.
And what can it mean now within that context? So,
when someone comes and they’re up high in their
chest breathing, trying to figure out how to touch
their feet or imagine the feeling of their feet
touching the floor, acknowledging that their feet
were on a floor of a house that was decades old,
that that house had walls that supported the floor
that supported their feet. And that the place had
a foundation. And to picture that foundation.
To understand that that foundation came after
years of beauty and conflict underneath it.
The centuries. Thinking back to when it was
York. Thinking back prior to colonization. Like,
just to say, like, there is a safer space, but
there’s no safe space. And the Palace sometimes...
I don’t know if it’s part of how we talked... How
politics happen, but there’s that [groans] sort of
essentialist thinking that “Well, if there’s women
or women and trans people in this space, it’s
different.” That pride mingling with delusion
[laughs] to some degree, of safety. And being able
to be, like, “Hard things are going to happen;
they have happened here.” So, trying to figure
out either through visualization, mindfulness,
and then through finding the spot of joy that they
could carry into this new space, acknowledging
it is a space. You know? But that they planted a
seed there first, before that happened. And here
they are again. And that the police didn’t
take that away. To let go of that because
it wasn’t spoiled. Take apart those metaphors
so that you can recover a sense of agency so
that you’re not carrying anxiety unnecessarily.
Right? Especially when the point is pleasure.